Update: Getting Started with git Branching Strategies and dbt (#7140)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/blog/2025-01-28-git-branching-strategies-and-dbt.md

    - Configurations and job changes can be tested with production-like parameters before they actually hit production.
    - Changes merged to the middle branch for shared development won't be reflected in production. Consumers of `main` will be none-the-wiser about the things that developers do for ease of collaboration.
    
    Weaknesses
    
    - Changes can be slower to get to production due to the extra processes intended for the middle branch. In order to keep things moving, there should be someone (or a group of people) in place who fully own managing the changes, validation status, and release cycle.
    - Changes that are valid can get stuck behind other changes that aren’t - having a good plan in place for how the team should handle this scenario is essential because conundrum can hold up getting things to production.
    - There’s extra management of any new trunks, which will need ownership - without someone (or a group of people) who are knowledgeable, it can be confusing understanding what needs to be done and how to do it when things get out of sync.

>     - It can require additional compute in the form of scheduled jobs in the QA environment, as well as an additional CI job from qa > main for testing releases before they're merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It can require additional compute in the form of scheduled jobs in the QA environment, as well as an additional CI job from `qa` > `main` for testing releases before they're merged.
```

<summary>How do you make releases?</summary>
<p>

In our examples, we noted that our definition of a release is a pull request from `qa` to `main`, and this is opened from the git platform. 

> **Having the source branch as `qa` on your pull request will also incorporate any new merges to `qa` while your PR stays open, possibly resulting in other features being promoted to `main` unintentionally once you merge.** Because of this it’s important that the person opening a release stays up to date on merges and last runs to ensure the validity of changes before the release is merged. There are two options we like to implement to make this easier\:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Having the source branch as `qa` on your pull request will also incorporate any new merges to `qa` while your PR stays open, possibly resulting in other features being promoted to `main` unintentionally once you merge.** Because of this, it’s important that the person opening a release stays up to date on merges and last runs to ensure the validity of changes before the release is merged. There are two options we like to implement to make this easier\:
```

You may be tempted to change to a less standard branching strategy to avoid this - our colleague Grace Goheen has [written some thoughts on this](https://docs.getdbt.com/blog/the-case-against-git-cherry-picking) and provided examples - it’s a worthwhile read!

> dbt does not perform cherry picking operations and this needs to be done from a command line interface or your git platform’s user interface, if the option is available. We align with Grace on this one — not only does cherry picking require a very good understanding of git operations and the state of the branches, but when it isn’t done with care it can introduces a host of other issues that can be hard to resolve. What we tend to see is that the CI processes we’ve exemplified instead shift what the definition of the first PR’s approval is - not only can it be approved for coding and syntax by a peer, but it can also be approved for it’s output by selecting from objects built within the CI schema. This eliminates a lot of the issues with encountering code that can’t be merged to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt does not perform cherry picking operations and this needs to be done from a command line interface or your git platform’s user interface, if the option is available. We align with Grace on this one — not only does cherry picking require a very good understanding of git operations and the state of the branches, but when it isn’t done with care, it can introduce a host of other issues that can be hard to resolve. What we tend to see is that the CI processes we’ve exemplified instead shift what the definition of the first PR’s approval is - not only can it be approved for coding and syntax by a peer, but it can also be approved for it’s output by selecting from objects built within the CI schema. This eliminates a lot of the issues with encountering code that can’t be merged to production.
```

This structure is mostly desired when there are requirements for using different versions data (i.e scrubbed data) by different teams, but working with the same code changes. This structure allows each team to have a dedicated environment for deployments. Example\:

1. Developers work off of mocked data for their `feature` branches and merge to `qa` for end-to-end and over-time testing of all merged changes using the mocked data before releasing to `preproduction`.
2. Once `qa` is merged to `preproduction`, the underlying data being used switches to using scrubbed production data and other personas can start looking at and reviewing how this data is functioning before it hits production.

> 3. One `preproduction` is merged to `main`, the underlying data being used switches to production data sets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once `preproduction` is merged to `main`, the underlying data being used switches to production data sets. 
```

    
    <Lightbox src="/img/blog/2025-01-28-git-branching-strategies-and-dbt/15_direct_tagging.png" title="Tagging in Direct Promotion" width="85%" />

> Which one you decide should use depends on how your team would like to manage the changes. No matter the reason for more branches, these points are always relevant to plan out\:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whichever option you decide depends on how your team would like to manage the changes. No matter the reason for more branches, these points are always relevant to plan out\:
```

<summary>How do we change from a direct promotion strategy to an indirect promotion strategy?</summary>
<p>

Here’s the additional setup steps in a nutshell (using the name `qa` for our middle environment) - for more details be sure to read through the indirect promotion section\:

- git Platform
    - Create a new branch called `qa`, which is derived from `main`
    - Protect `qa` with branch protection rules
- dbt Cloud
    - Development\: Switch your environment to use the **custom branch** option and specify `qa`. This will base developers now off of `qa` code.
    - Continous Integration\: If you have an existing job for this, ensure the **custom branch** is changed to `qa`. This will change the CI job’s trigger to occur on pull requests to `qa`.

**At this point, your developers will be following the indirect promotion workflow and you can continue working on things in the background.** You may still need to set up a database, database permissions, environments, deployment jobs, etc. Here is a short checklist to help you out! Refer back to our section on indirect promotion for many more details\:

> - **Decide if you want to deploy QA code.** Many folks will deploy so they can make use of deferral and Advanced CI features. If so\:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Decide if you want to deploy QA code.** Many folks will deploy so they can make use of deferral and Advanced CI features. If so\:**
```
